Note number	Note text	Related links
1	Deaths registrations refer to the date when the death was registered rather than occurred (the actual date of death).
2	Counts for age groups do not include deaths where age is either missing or not yet fully coded. For this reason counts for individual age groups may not sum to "All ages".
3	Deaths at home are those at the usual residence of the deceased (according to the informant) where this is not a communal establishment. Care homes include homes for the chronic sick, nursing homes, homes for people with mental health problems and non-NHS multi function sites. Hospices include Sue Ryder Homes, Marie Curie Centres, oncology centres, voluntary hospice units, and palliative care centres. Elsewhere category includes schools for people with learning disabilities, holiday homes and hotels, common lodging houses, and any other places.
4	Coding of deaths by cause for the most recent weeks is not finalised and numbers are revised with each publication. Our annual publications include finalised causes of death for that year.	User guide to mortality statistics
5	Deaths "involving" a cause include all deaths where the cause was mentioned anywhere on the death certificate, either as a main cause of death or a contributory cause. Deaths "due to" a cause are a subset of "involving", and only include deaths where the cause was the underlying (main) cause of death.
6	Causes of death in this dataset are defined as in the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
7	Counts of deaths by underlying cause exclude neonatal deaths (aged under 28 days).  More information on cause of death coding for infant deaths is available in the User guide to mortality statistics.
8	A statistical model is used to estimate the expected number of deaths. The model accounts for changes in population size, age structure and trends in mortality over time. Estimates for expected deaths, derived from the statistical model, are not whole numbers but have been rounded in this table. The percentage change from expected deaths has been calculated from the unrounded number of expected deaths. 	Data sources and quality
9	Weekly deaths for Scotland are produced by National Records Scotland (NRS).	National Records Scotland (NRS) publication.
10	Weekly deaths for Northern Ireland are produced by Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA).	Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) publication.
11	England, Wales and Northern Ireland week definitions include deaths from Saturday to Friday, and Scotland from Monday to Sunday.
12	UK totals are calculated using the numbers of deaths of usual residents of each of the 4 countries, including any deaths of non-residents that were registered in the UK. Deaths of non-residents have been included for the specific Scotland and Northern Ireland country breakdowns to ensure consistency with data published by NRS and NISRA.
13	Data for England and Wales, Scotland and the UK are updated every week. Data for Northern Ireland are added for the current week, and previous weeks are only updated following the publication of their quarterly dataset Registrar General Quarterly Tables.	Registrar General Quarterly Tables
14	Expected deaths are not provided broken down by age for individual UK countries due to the volatility in the estimates based on low numbers of deaths.
15	Estimates for expected deaths will have some uncertainty, in future we will publish confidence intervals around the estimate to account for this.
16	Expected deaths have been calculated using mid-year estimates for years up to 2024 and population projections for 2025. These are the latest population estimates at the time of production.
17	Death certification reform, including a statutory Medical Examiner system, came into force in England and Wales on 9 September 2024. The reforms change the process by which causes of deaths are scrutinised and certified in England and Wales. For more information see the Data sources and quality section of Deaths registered weekly in England and Wales series.	Death certification reform.
18	Deaths in the Certification type categories do not sum to the "All deaths" total; deaths in "Certified by coroner" are made up of deaths in "Certified by coroner with inquest" and "Certified by coroner with no inquest".
19	Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) is the official measure of relative deprivation for small areas in England. It is designed to identify those small areas where there are the highest concentrations of several different types of deprivation. IMD decile range from 1 to 10, 1 being the most deprived and 10 being the least deprived. IMD decile is assigned to each Lower Super Output Area (LSOA) in England. In this table, data is based on LSOA 2011/IMD 2019.	The English Indices of Deprivation 2019
20	Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation (WIMD) is the official measure of relative deprivation for small areas in Wales. It is designed to identify those small areas where there are the highest concentrations of several different types of deprivation. WIMD quintiles range from 1 to 5, 1 being the most deprived and 5 being the least deprived. The WIMD classification works by grouping together Lower Super Output Areas (LSOAs) based on their level of deprivation. In this table, data is based on LSOA 2011/WIMD 2019.	The Welsh Indices of Deprivation 2019
21	The population distribution across quantiles of the IMD (Index of Multiple Deprivation) and WIMD (Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation) can vary by factors including age. Therefore caution should be taken when directly comparing the number of deaths between different deprivation quantiles.
22	The "Unknown" and "Uncertified" categories in certification type have been combined to make "Unknown/Uncertified".
23	Age-standardised mortality rates (ASMR) are calculated for each week separately using the deaths registered within that week and weekly interpolated populations, and then adjusted so it is comparable with annual rates.The 95% confidence interval is given and has been calculated using Byar’s method with Dobson method adjustment.	User guide to mortality statistics
24	Registration data for !previous_year! are based on finalised mortality data. This has been published in our annual death registration publication.	Deaths registered in England and Wales